This section we're going to be showing you how you can store multiple values within one variable and
then also have to return those values and utilize those values within your javascript code.
And this is where arrays come in.
Arrays are a great place to store multiple values within one variable and you're going to really see
the power that's available within arrays as well as objects so objects are very similar to arrays because
they allow you to hold multiple values within that one variable and then call to those values as needed
within your code.
And there's a lot of benefits to adding your values into an array.
Or an intern object because this is grouping it all together and giving you that access from one call.
You can also explore different arrays and how to store values in multiple different formats so you can
store them as strings variables booleans and you can also store objects and arrays and arrays within
objects so this makes it really powerful and you can really expand on that.
And we're going to create our first application.
So this is a mini application.
It's going to be a to do a to do list.
It's going to be built from scratch and it's going to allow you to see the interaction that's available
within an array and how arrays can store task information and then also how we can put that information.
So once we put it into array how we can get it out of that array and make use of it within our code
we're also going to look at different ways how arrays can default default values and how you can get
that information.
Default values that are contained within an array.
So each array actually get its length Baxi you can just simply call to the array name and a length and
tell you how many items are contained within there.
So this is the beginning of where arrays become really useful and powerful because not only can you
get the length but there's a lot of builtin methods to use arrays.
So you get a lot of power with putting your data within an array.
We're also going to be building out a guessing game where you have to guess a value that is contained
within the array.
So you have to guess that index value of an item within the array we're going to be building this from
scratch with the content we're learning within this section and some of the content from the previous
section.
We're also going to introduce you to how to randomize a value.
So that's math.
It's a built in method in javascript and it's really useful to create random information and a lot of
times it's used within games.
So we're adding it in within the section to make things more interesting as we go along and create exercises.
And it's all about practice.
So make sure that you take the opportunity to practice working with the Rays within this section so
you can get really familiar with them.
You can see how you can manipulate and update the contents of those arrays and also see how arrays work
and how they're ready and all the different functionality that you have in order to interact with your
content that's contained within those arrays.
So you can access that information check if the values are actually contained within the array.
And that's another really useful part of array because you can check to see if an item or if a value
is already sitting in the array.
And this is where we're also going to create another exercise.
And this is going to be the array updater.
So the user input is going to be used in order to find values contained within that array and we're
going to create a dynamic arrays are going to be updating that array dynamically looking at user input
from the prompt which we learned in one of the earlier lessons.
And then we're going to look at nested arrays and multi-dimensional raise where you can store even more
information and retrieve that information and make arrays even more valuable.
So getting started with javascript to raise and also how you can loop through that data that's contained
within the array.
So you can irritate through that array returning.
All of that values and data that's contained within there.
And then also introducing you to javascript objects how we can store lots of information in that one
variable and then get data from javascript objects and make use of it within your javascript code.
Javascript objects can be used to manipulate data and retrieve values and a whole lot more.
So we're going to learn how to retrieve javascript objects make use of javascript objects and also loop
through the contents and retrieve information contained within those objects.
So you're going to see how javascript objects and Javascript arrays can be combined together to provide
you even more power with that data.
So when you're ready let's creating and working with javascript and arrays and.